                                    CSV files
- This file contains data separated by a comma.
- Each ine contains the same sequence of data.
- They are used to import and export data into the database.
- The snippet below exports data into the database.

    LOAD DATA INFILE 'c:/tmp/city.csv'
    INTO TABLE city FIELDS TERMINIATED BY ' , ‘
    ENCLOSED BY ' " ‘
    LINES TERMINATED BY '\n' IGNORE 1 ROWS;

- The following snippet exports data from a database into the csv file.

    LOAD DATA INFILE 'c:/tmp/city.csv' INTO TABLE city FIELDS
    TERMINIATED BY ' , ‘
    ENCLOSED BY ' " ‘
    LINES TERMINATED BY '\n' IGNORE 1 ROWS;

                                Database interaction
- There are three wats to interact with databases
            1. Client-server model -applications are created to provide an instrument for interaction between the users
                    and the DBMS interface.
            2.Three-tier applications with web pages - Web users engage in a direct database interaction. Communication occurs
                        on a front-end interface
            3. Embedded application code.

                    Transactions
- They represent reproduction of one or more changes that are performed in the database.
- A transaction denotes any alteration performed in the database.
- A transaction can consist of five statuses
        1. Active - This is the initial state of a transaction, when it is being executed.
        2. Partial committed - It enters this stage when it is completing its final operations
        3. Failed - It enters this state when any checks made by the database recovery system fail.
        4. Aborted - A transaction enters this when the database recovery system check fails and the database rolls to its
                    original state before the transaction was committed.
        5. Committed - When all operations within a transaction have been successfully executed.

                    Uses of Transactions
- Transactions can be used to run a set of operations so that the database never contains a set of partial operations.
    If one operation fails, then the database is restored to its original state.
- Used to provide isolation between programs that access the database simultaneously.

                    Properties of database transactions
- Transactions follow four simple standards known as ACID:
    1. Atomicity - Ensures that all changes are successfully completed.
    2. Consistency - Ensures that any changes don't affect the integrity of the database including the constraints.
    3. Isolation - Transactions are isolated meaning they don't interfere with other transactions.
    4. Durability - Commits the transaction so that any interruptions to the database availability, doesn't affect the consistency of the data.

                    Cleaning data in a database
- You can use the following commands to ensure that data in a database is consistent.
        1. LEFT - Selects data specified in the left position
        2. RIGHT - selects data specified in the right position.
        3. TRIM - selects specified data based on the given requirements.
        4. LOWERCASE - converts data in small letters.
        5. UPPERCASE - converts data in capital letters.
        6. CONCAT - Combines strings from different columns together.

        Common Database Errors
- Most common database errors include.
    1. Wrong data type.                          7. Truncated or censored data.
    2. Duplicate data                            8. Broken references.
    3. Unacceptable characters in a text.
    4. Missing data
    5. Inconsistent data representation.
    6. Unacceptable characters in a text.
NOTE: Errors such as additional spaces in characters can be resolved using the TRIM keyword. It removes extra
        spaces in characters.

        DESCRIBE KEYWORD
- It is used to describe the schema related to a table.
- It shows the number of columns involved in a table and the data type involved with each column.
 Example: Consider table students, describe students will list the columns involved with the database and the
            type of data supposed to be filled in these columns

        NULL statement
- Null statements are used as placeholders for empty values and increase readability.
- You can only insert a null value when the specified column constraint is not as NOT NULL.
- When a column is created with the NOT NULL clause, you must input a value when you do an INSERT. An error arises
  when you don't.